1;2ceditor:
a keybindings system, flexible enough to emulate emacs/vim
actual package system
  namespaces, so you can have 'eval' in each of lisp, js, factor, etc.
nice UI
good extension language-ideally js/html/css
semantic CSS classes for text highlighting, so someone can have a single consistent look-n-feel for all their modes
plugin system for grammars/parsers for languages so they can all have perfect highlighting/indentation.
system for interfacing to the local box-at minimum good enough to talk to git.
a swank-like system for things to talk to debuggers so every language gets slime
elisp smushes together at least 4 kinds of config:
-defining new functions
-setting keybindings
-setting behavioral variables (how many spaces to indent with a tab, how much colorization to do, etc.)
-visual styling
splitting these into different deals would be great, particularly if there was a namespacing mechanism.


way to build this:
1 datastructures to expose a text file for editing.
2 library for manipulating said datastructure.  Lets you move around, cut lines, put them back, transpose, etc.
3 library for embeddable parsers for languages/protocols/etc..  This converts to sexps
4 library for conversion of the sexps to html
5 keypress-to-function translator
6 package system for functions
7 html for editing
8 library to deal with the local system
9 library for network ops-if in browser, this is pretty much free.

1: is a doubly-linked list of doubly-linked lists of words sufficient?

2: need a replayable journal of insert/delete operations that can be 'gc'd down to a plain text file.  Also need a doubly-linked-list of lines for fast text and line insert/delete and probably display too.  Finally, need a sexp tree for sexp operations.  Need all of these to remain in sync, and not generate too much garbage.  TextBuffer should be the name for this class.  Evented seems like a good way to implement this sort of app; the keyboard, disk, mouse, and network will generate events and the rest of the system will produce/consume them.

need to write a simple compiler to HTML.
see if there is anything worth stealing from ymacs.

Check out orion.  Really interesting ideas, despite a lack of extensibility in CSS/js.  They want the editor to call out to the web for things like running tests, scaffolding things, etc., and also to just be a bunch of tabs in a browser.  That is sorta interesting.  I think that local interaction is useful, and that getting to use all the keys is important.  Also, their editor is BSD-licensed, and crazy fast.


@kmx talked about a technique for getting building embeddable HTML widgets, which would presumably be useful

see about embedding this in chromium, for the following reasons:
-so I can use NaCl and chrome extensions
-so I can distribute to all reasonable computing platforms


useful thoughts:
http://davepeck.org/2009/05/14/dear-osx-editor-gods/
